TURN documentation update (#9834)
matrix-org/synapse: docs/turn-howto.md

# Overview

This document explains how to enable VoIP relaying on your Home Server with TURN.

The synapse Matrix Home Server supports integration with [TURN](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traversal_Using_Relays_around_NAT>) server via the
[TURN server REST API](<http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-uberti-behave-turn-rest-00>).
This allows the Home Server to generate credentials that are valid for use on the
TURN server through the use of a secret shared between the Home Server and
the TURN server.

The following sections describe how to install [coturn](<https://github.com/coturn/coturn>) (which implements the TURN REST API) and integrate it with synapse.

# Requirements
For TURN to work, the service must be reachable on a public IP. TURN acts as the
"media anchor" to allow NATted clients to exchange media streams (voice / video)
via a commonly reachable point on the Internet.

Hosting TURN behind NAT requires careful planning of port-fowarding and firewall
configuration. Due to the possible security implications and complexity, a good
understanding of the TURN protocol is recommended.

# Installation
`Coturn` is available from a variety of sources such as native package managers,

> docker images or installation from source. For our application no supporting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker images or installation from source. For use with Matrix, no supporting
```

services (DB) or persistent storage is required other than for logs and config.

## `Coturn` Setup

#### Debian installation

>     # apt install coturn

Reviewer: this is inconsistent with the rest of the doc.

```suggestion
    apt install coturn
```

        ./configure

    > You may need to install `libevent2`: if so, you should do so in
    > the way recommended by your operating system. You can ignore
    > warnings about lack of database support: a database is unnecessary
    > for this purpose.

1.  Build and install it:

        make
        make install

#### Docker installation
There are coturn docker images available. You can prepare by running

>         docker pull instrumentisto/coturn

Reviewer: https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy [recently](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/pull/1009) changed to the [official coturn image](https://hub.docker.com/r/coturn/coturn/). It looks like few, if any, changes are required. could we do the same here?

The first part of the command needed to start your container detached is as follows:

>         docker run -d -p 3478:3478/udp -p 3478:3478/tcp \

Reviewer: why do we need separate `-p` params for udp and tcp?

>         -p <range_start-range_end:range_start-range_end>/udp \

Reviewer: I notice this is not recommended in https://github.com/instrumentisto/coturn-docker-image#why-so-many-ports-opened. Should we at least link to that advice?

        --name="<fill in container name for easy access in CLI>" \
        -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
        --mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/coturn \
        --restart=unless-stopped instrumentisto/coturn

> With the first -p option we expose the TURN port on both TCP and UDP. The second
> -p option specifies the UDP port range used for media bridging (where your clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the first and second `-p` options we expose the TURN port on both TCP and UDP. The third
`-p` option specifies the UDP port range used for media bridging (where your clients
```

> will send media streams). The temp mount is to store run state of the deamon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will send media streams). The tmpfs mount is to store run state of the daemon.
```

See Docker documentation for details.

For Docker all coturn configuration options listed below can also be specified
on the docker startup script, like this:

        [... same as above to start ...]
        --restart=unless-stopped instrumentisto/coturn \
        --total-quota=1200 --realm=<your turn server domain, ie turn.domain.tld> \
        --external-ip='$(detect-external-ip)'

So any configuration option described below you can add after the docker image
name, preceeded by --. You can also mount a volume with -v and place a
configuration file there, for example turnserver.conf.

### Configuration

1.  Create or edit the config file in `/etc/turnserver.conf`. The relevant
    lines, with example values, are:

        use-auth-secret
        static-auth-secret=<your secret key here>
        realm=turn.myserver.org

>         external-ip='$(detect-external-ip)'

Reviewer: I don't think this will work in a configuration file, nor will it work outside the docker image.

        use-auth-secret
        static-auth-secret=[your secret key here]
        static-auth-secret=<your secret key here>
        realm=turn.myserver.org
        external-ip='$(detect-external-ip)'
        no-cli

    The 'external-ip' can either be the included detection script like this example
    or the real external IP. That IP can be different from the local / relay IP, which
    is auto detected and not specified.

    See `turnserver.conf` for explanations of the options. One way to generate
    the `static-auth-secret` is with `pwgen`:

        pwgen -s 64 1

    A `realm` must be specified, but its value is somewhat arbitrary. (It is
    sent to clients as part of the authentication flow.) It is conventional to

>     set it to be your server name.

Reviewer: this is useful info I think - why remove it?

> 2.  You will most likely want to configure coturn to write logs somewhere. The easiest way is normally to send them to the syslog:

Reviewer: please don't undo the existing wrapping. (Also, why manually renumber the list items?)

>     (in which case, the logs will be available via journalctl -u coturn on a systemd system). Alternatively, coturn can be configured to write to a logfile - check the example config file supplied with coturn.

Reviewer: why remove the existing formatting?

    suggested as a minimum starting point:
    
        # VoIP traffic is all UDP. There is no reason to let users connect to arbitrary TCP endpoints
        # via the relay.
        no-tcp-relay

>         # Require authentication (same as for TURN) for STUN requests to preven refrection attacks
>         # via the STUN mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Require authentication (same as for TURN) for STUN requests to prevent reflection attacks
        # via the STUN mechanism.
```

        secure-stun
        # Disable multicast peers, to prevent multicast traffic.
        no-multicast-peers
        # Use / add fingerprint attribute in TURN messages.
        fingerprint
        

>         # Specify a dededicated port-range to relay media streams on (n this exmaple 400 ports)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Specify a dedicated port range to relay media streams on (in this example 400 ports)
```

        min-port=49100

>         max-port=49500

Reviewer: is this a security setting, or just something that you need to keep in sync with your firewall/docker commandline/etc?

        # don't let the relay ever try to connect to private IP address ranges within your network (if any)
        # given the turn server is likely behind your firewall, remember to include any privileged public IPs too.
        denied-peer-ip=10.0.0.0-10.255.255.255
        denied-peer-ip=192.168.0.0-192.168.255.255
        denied-peer-ip=172.16.0.0-172.31.255.255
        
        # special case the turn server itself so that client->TURN->TURN->client flows work
        allowed-peer-ip=10.0.0.1
        
        # allow LAN clients, in order to allow for your clients to be either outside your network or inside.
        # In the example below it's a range of 100 IPs (the DHCP range normally)
        # It's important to NOT allow the LAN clients unless you have authentication configured!
        allowed-peer-ip=192.168.1.100-192.168.1.200
        
        # consider whether you want to limit the quota of relayed streams per user (or total) to avoid risk of DoS.
        user-quota=12 # 4 streams per video call, so 12 streams = 3 simultaneous relayed calls per user.

>         total-quota=1200 #total number of simultaneous calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        total-quota=1200 # total number of simultaneous calls
```

        # TLS private key file
        pkey=/path/to/privkey.pem

    In this case, replace the `turn:` schemes in the `turn_uri` settings below

>     with `turns:`.

Reviewer: is this not correct?

    traffic), in this example 3478 (both UDP and TCP).

>     Also allows UDP traffic on the specified port-range, in this example 49100-49500.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Also allow UDP traffic on the specified port-range, in this example 49100-49500.
```

    traffic), in this example 3478 (both UDP and TCP).
    Also allows UDP traffic on the specified port-range, in this example 49100-49500.

    We recommend that you only try to set up TLS/DTLS once you have set up a

>     basic installation and got it working.

Reviewer: I think this is worth keeping

>     private key and certificate.

Reviewer: Include this as part of the TLS step?

    If you used the Debian package (or have set up a systemd unit yourself):

        systemctl restart coturn

    If you installed from source:

        bin/turnserver -o

    For Docker instructions, see the run command above under "Docker"

> ## synapse Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Synapse Setup
```

    entries for each transport your TURN server supports.
2.  "`turn_shared_secret`": This is the secret shared between your
    Home server and your TURN server, so you should set it to the same

>     string you used in turnserver.conf. This secret is used to created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    string you used in turnserver.conf. This secret is used to create
```

    one day (86400000).
4.  "`turn_allow_guests`": Whether to allow guest users to use the
    TURN server. This is enabled by default, as otherwise VoIP will

>     not work reliably for voip calls between federated servers.

Reviewer: ... yes it will?

    However, it does introduce a security risk as it lets guests
    connect to arbitrary endpoints without having gone through a
    CAPTCHA or similar to register a real account.

As an example, here is the relevant section of the config file for matrix.org.

> The turn_uris are appropriate for TURN servers listening on the default ports, with no TLS.

Reviewer: why remove the existing ` formatting?

>     turn_uris: [ "turn:turn.matrix.org:3478?transport=udp", "turn:turn.matrix.org:3478?transport=tcp" ]

Reviewer: the config file for matrix.org's servers doesn't have explicit ports...

As an example, here is the relevant section of the config file for `matrix.org`. The
`turn_uris` are appropriate for TURN servers listening on the default ports, with no TLS.
As an example, here is the relevant section of the config file for matrix.org.
The turn_uris are appropriate for TURN servers listening on the default ports, with no TLS.

    turn_uris: [ "turn:turn.matrix.org?transport=udp", "turn:turn.matrix.org?transport=tcp" ]
    turn_shared_secret: "n0t4ctuAllymatr1Xd0TorgSshar3d5ecret4obvIousreAsons"
    turn_uris: [ "turn:turn.matrix.org:3478?transport=udp", "turn:turn.matrix.org:3478?transport=tcp" ]
    turn_shared_secret: n0t4ctuAllymatr1Xd0TorgSshar3d5ecret4obvIousreAsons
    turn_user_lifetime: 86400000
    turn_allow_guests: True

After updating the homeserver configuration, you must restart synapse:
After updating the homeserver configuration, you must restart synapse.

  * If you use synctl:
    ```sh
    cd /where/you/run/synapse
    ./synctl restart
    ```
  * If you use systemd:
    ```
    systemctl restart matrix-synapse.service
    ```
... and then reload any clients (or wait an hour for them to refresh their

> settings).

Reviewer: this is important
